hey everybody
dr. Pedram shojai founder of well.org
and the editor of Bmore magazine here
with a fermentation assume our Bock a
dear friend and going to show us some
wonderful things to do with food add
some life to it and make it super food
so we're going to just make some
sauerkraut today really simple and the
exciting thing about this is that all
you need here is cabbage onion dill
caraway and salt so first of all you're
going to core the cabbage always just
take out the center there hey we're just
going to try to shred this and keep it a
very a fairly even texture all right
chop up some onion okay the reason I use
onion is because it has prebiotics in it
it has inulin
so it's going to help this to ferment
faster but it also a lot of times it
guarantees that this is going to work
alright so now I'm just going to chop up
some dill dill just makes it taste
delicious so it's going to add a lot of
flavor to your sauerkraut
all right so we have the vegetables
chopped up and in here and we're going
to add some spices you can use any
spices we're gonna use caraway because
it is a really traditional sauerkraut
spice and then we're going to add salt
I know salt is important you want to
make sure that you are using a
non-iodized sea salt right iodine is a
disinfectant we don't want to use that
in here so I have Celtic sea salt here
but you can use like the Himalayan pink
sea salt you can use any of these and
we're going to add for this but we're
probably just going to add about a
tablespoon or so generally the rule is
three to four tablespoons per gallon of
sauerkraut okay so that's a gallon with
it all packed in there we're doing about
a quart today so we're going to fill it
up into here this is about a quart so we
want to use I'm saying like one
tablespoon one and a half tablespoons
you want it to taste as salty as a Lay's
potato chip and so you just want to mix
it and you're really just get trying to
get the salt to touch all the veggies
here and so that's going to take the
water out of the vegetables and into
this solution and I'll show you how this
light creates the brine I don't add
water when I make sauerkraut mmm so it's
going to be a little bit more potent
than your normal sauerkraut that's been
watered down essentially it's gonna be
sour and delicious so that's all the
water you need because you're pulling it
out of the cabbage yeah and this is why
you want to use fresh organic produce
because it's filled with all this water
and that's what we're trying to use to
create the bride all right so let's see
here Gooden I can I mean I don't know if
you can see it glistening all right like
the salt is already starting to get this
okay so when you're trying to make good
sauerkraut you want to make it taste
good here right now pounding it in there
you're getting it kind of jammed in
there as much as you can right well I
want to get all the air bubbles out I
see so I really want to push this down
here I want to smash all of the cabbage
in here as tightly as possible so that
the air bubbles are gone we're starting
to see some of the water mm-hmm gurgle
through here yeah you see that yeah so
that's gonna form our bride so
essentially let me just kind of show you
the stages now so what you're gonna do
is you're gonna fill this up you want to
leave
at least an inch in the top maybe an
inch and a half two inches and that's
going to just really keep it from
overflowing because for the first week
it's gonna be incredibly active so
what's really interesting is we didn't
add a starter if you notice just the
vegetables and the salt and the bacteria
that are living on this cabbage right
now and the bacteria probably on my
hands you know as I smash this down in
here are the bacteria that are going to
inoculate and start growing now that
we've created this anaerobic environment
so the way that I do it I like these
jars because they're really easy you
don't really want to clamp it all the
way down you just leave it like this
right so the air can like basically like
flow out the carbon dioxide can flow out
as it ferments but you don't have a lot
of stuff from your kitchen and your
house flying in right so that's how we
want to leave it this is one that has
been going for a few days
right so I want you to just notice the
difference in these two this was this a
few days ago yep and so one thing is
that it's really really juicy I mean
there's that in aerobic environment this
will bubble for the first week and if
you look see how it's like starting to
get more translucent like just notice
that a lot of the white parts of the
cabbage have changed it's starting to
starting to break down a little bit
mm-hmm and that's what the bacteria do
just in a few days huh yeah just in a
few days
Wow I usually let this go for probably
two to four weeks I've open like this
like this mm-hmm
and then this starts to happen yeah you
let it I let it pick it going two to
four weeks yep and then at four weeks is
when I take it out I taste it and make
sure it's good and I put it in the
refrigerator and at that point I will
clamp this down so this one has been
going for about one week and again you
can tell like this cabbage it's more
translucent look it's changed like from
the green it's getting a little bit more
yellow and this one's sour it's
delicious
many people are gonna want to eat it now
and that's fine you just clamp it down
put in your fridge it's good to go okay
so look you could eat this you need
anything down mine right so at any point
along the spectrum it's all edible but
you want it to get to that magic moment
this one's been going for three weeks
so this one's delicious right again
totally different color translucent you
can almost like see there's no more
white modeling like there is another one
and yeah go for it
mm-hmm right and so what's changed is
this has gotten more sour and that sour
flavor is the lactic acid
so as you ferment you basically are
letting these bacteria create lactic
acid and carbon dioxide interesting so
the food it blocks out the foodborne
pathogens but then the good healthy bugs
that made this party happen are still
there and then when we eat it they come
in to us right so you're getting the
benefit of both you're getting this you
know this action where it prevents
foodborne pathogens from growing right
so inside your body it's actually going
to help get rid of any bad organisms
that you don't want living there and
you're bringing in the healthy bacteria
unless you're in the good guys right on
yeah so you guys you saw the recipe here
we'll add it to wherever you're seeing
this so you can follow through with this
some are how do people find you some
herb accom is the best place to find me
I also have a free gift on there for the
top food that I recommend obviously
might be sauerkraut but you should check
that out if you want to learn how to
shop for the right kind of raw
unpasteurized sauerkraut awesome guys
fermentation missed summer Bach I think
that that's the coolest title in the
world I love your card thank you